There is a screening of your film ''Dimensions of dialogue'' here in Karlovy Vary. This film is more than 30 years old
and opened you the way to the world.
Do you think that the movie got old among all those years?
My work is based on imaginative films, not realistic.
Realistiv films tend to get old because after some time they become documentaries of era.
These films and their storylines solve problems of some epoch. The time they were made.
Therefore they were more appreciated than the imaginative films.
Imaginative films seemed as pointless and not devoting to any topic. However they never aged.
Because they go into the deep. They are never addressed to everyday life. Therefore they remain.
It is the same with paintings. For instance Hieronym Bosch.
His paintings are still actual and inspiring young people and artists.
Whereas Rembrandt, his paintings became only documentaries of certain period for people nowadays
And it is the same with movies.
Do you follow the progress of animation and contemporary animators?
Is there anyone specific that you like?
No, I do not follow that.
I never considered myself as a director of animated films nor that I would prefer animation. I do not even consider myself as a director of films at all.
Because I think, it does not matter what you do and how it is titled.
Poetry is the only one. And I think we can express ourselves in many ways. So I do more stuff.
Installations, paintings, design, ceramics. I consider film as one the expression devices.
We always hear that the visual culture get rid of the human ability to imagine. Do you agree with that?
Indeed. The eye is injured. It is attacked by television, commercials. and other visual devices.
That is also why I started to be interested in touch. Experimental. I think that touch, from all of our senses,
touch is less apathetic unpoilt and pure. Also not very commonly used in terms of culture.There is not much of it in here.
And from 1974 when I was not doing films for 7 years, I started to be concerned with touch.